When you first run your app, you are welcomed with a welcome message as well as a menu. The menu uses a switch case and for a user to select an option they first have to enter the corresponding number. Depending on the number they choose the application will advance and if they enter a word or number that is not there, they will be shown an error message with information on why they received an error. The options in the application are as follows: add recipe, display recipe, scale recipe, reset quantities, clear recipe, and end session. The add recipe uses arrays to store the user data and the size of the array depends on how big the user wants it. The user will be asked to enter the name of the recipe, the number of ingredients, the name of the ingredients, the quantity of the ingredients, and the unit of measurement of that quantity. If by any chance the user makes a mistake the app will pick it up and ask them to re-enter what they entered wrong before proceeding. Then you will be asked to enter the number of steps followed by the steps in detail. Once complete the user will be brought back to the main menu and can select the display recipe option to see the recipe they have just entered. They can select the scale recipe option to scale the recipe and then display it again using the display recipe. The scale recipe option uses a switch case to minimize user errors and simplify the process. The reset quantities option reverts the measurements to their original values. The clear data option sets all the variables to null, and this makes sure that they are empty, and the user can start all over again. If the user tries to view the recipe when there is no data stored the app will show a message informing them that there is no recipe stored yet. The end session option closes the console.
